 Physica A 674 (2025) 130725 1214 219479 937370 10358 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect PhysicaA journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/physa Hypergraph Kolmogorov–Arnold Networks for station level meteorological forecasting Jian Tang, Kai Ma * College of Computer and Information Technology , China Three Gorges University, Yichang, 443002, Hubei, China check for updates A R T I C L E I N F O A B S T R A C T Keywords: Weather forecasting Graph neural network Hypergraph Kolmogorov–Arnold Network Weather forecasting plays a vital role in various domains, including disaster prevention, resour ce management, and energy optimization. Meteorological observation data are crucia l for accurate weather forecasting, as they provide the spatial and temporal information nee ded to capture complex weather patterns. Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), due to their ability to handle non- Euclidean spatial relationships, can model the s patial dependencies among weather stations and have achieved good results in various weather prediction tasks. However, tradit ional graph neural networks, while effective at modeling s patial relationships between weather stations, often fall short in capturing the complex, multi-dimensional dependencies across different scales. This paper introduces a novel m ulti-information spatio-temporal hypergraph learning framework to overcome these limitations. B y integrating neighborhood and semantic hyper- graph convolutional networks, the framework effectively aggregates information from both spatially adjacent and semantically similar weather dat a, enabling it to capture intricate spatial and temporal features. Additionally, the Ko lmogorov–Arnold Network (KAN) is introduced to enhance the model’s ability to learn dyn amic, high-dimensional feature representations through the use of learnable un ivariate functions instead of fixed linear weights. Experiments on benchmark weather datasets show that the proposed method surpasses traditional spatio- temporal graph neural networks, providing higher accuracy and robustness in predicting complex meteorological phenom ena. 1. Introduction Since ancient times, weather changes have profoundly affected human production and daily life. Whether in agricultural production, transportation, tourism, and energy management, weather conditions are key influencing factors. Cons equently, the development of reliable and efficient weather forecasting systems holds immense economic, scientifi c, and social significance. Accurate weather forecasting not only helps people plan thei r activities and production rationally but also effectively improves the society’s ability to cope with natural disasters, which makes the task of weather forecasting a research direction of great interest. Meteorological factors like temperature, humidity , wind, and cloud cover offer valuable historical data and robust support for researchers analyzing weather patterns. During the past decades, numerical weather prediction (NWP) has been the dominant approach, employing numerical integration to simulate meteorological dynamics in the atm osphere and on the Earth’s surface [ 1 , 2 ]. However, due to uncertainties in the initial conditi ons of differential equations, NWP predictions may not be accurate enough, especially in complex atmospheric processes [ 1 ]. In addition, NWP is also computationally demanding, whereas data-driven models can infer and generate predictions several orders of magnitude faster than traditional NWP models [ 3 ], thus enabling the generation * Corresponding author. E- mail addresses : tjbest 1003@126. com (J. Tang ), makai @ ctgu . edu . cn (K. Ma ). https :// doi . org /10.1016/j. physa .2025.130 725 Received 18 January 2025; Received in revised fo rm 9 May 2025 Available online 9 June 2025 0378-4371/© 2025 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. J. Tang and K . Ma Physica A : Statistical Mechanics and its Applications 674 (2025) 130725 of very large integrated predictions [ 4 ]. Ther efore, deep learning (DL)-based weather forecasting methods have received increasing attention, with the rapid development of deep learning techniques. Recent advances in deep learning-based weather forecasting pr ovide an alternative to NWP-based forecasting methods and have been shown to provide hig her accuracy and efficiency for nonprobabilistic forecasts. Methods based on Convolutional Neural Networks [ 5 , 6 ], Recurrent Neural Networks [ 7 , 8 ], Tra nsformer [ 9 , 10 ], Diffusion Models [ 8 , 11 ] and Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) [ 12 – 14 ] are presented for medium-term weath er forecasting. Among these, GNNs have attracted significant attention due to their ability to model non-Euclidean spatial r elationships, making them particularly suitable for processing irregularly distributed meteorological observation data. GNNs have been applied to tas ks such as precipitation forecasting, temperature prediction, and the detection of extreme weather events. By leveraging graph-based structures, GNNs can effectively capture spatial dependencies among weather stations, providing a promising approach for handling complex spatio-temporal corr elations in weather data. On this basis, large-scale models such as GraphCast [ 15 ], NeuralGCM [ 16 ] and Pangu-Weather [ 17 ] have made significant breakthroughs in global medium- and long-term forecasts. These models use the high-resolution, multivariate reanalysis dataset ERA5 [ 18 ] to simulate the evolution of mesoscale and global atmospheric systems. Ho wever, they rely heavily on massive data and computing resources, limiting their applicability in data-constrained or real-time business scenarios. In contrast, our research focuses on short- term forecasting tasks (within 12 h) using station-level observational data with limited v ariable types and short time spans. This leads to significant differences in model objectives , data conditions, and design requirements, highlighting the need for more lightweight, local prediction models. Despite the strengths of these approaches, several challenges persist. Modeling the spatial correlations in meteorological data remains difficult due to the advection effect, wherein meteorological attr ibutes propagate across regions through aggregation and diffusion, creating high-order dependencies across multiple dire ctions and nodes. The traditional graph structure, typically built on pairwise relationships, struggles to represent high-order and complex spatial correlations effectively. Meteorologi cal data are also subject to negative noise factors, such as extreme weather event s (e.g., hurricanes or extreme temperatures) that disrupt spatial dependencies, and noise generated by aging equipment or transmission delays during data acquisitio n. Such factors exacerbate data quality fluctuations, reducing the capab ility of models to extract meaningful features. Moreover, most existing methods rely heavily on geographic proximity to model spatial dependencies, which fails to acco unt for the complexity of atmospheric motion, where distant weather stations may exhibit similar patterns. This expose s the limitations of traditional approaches in capturing the inherent spatial semantic correlation s within weather data. Hypergraph Neural Networks (HGNNs) [ 19 ] offer a promising solution, as they can model higher-order relationships more effectively th an other methods. Although particularly effective at capturing higher-order dependencies, HGNNs inevitably incur substantially increased param- eter complexity and computational overhead. To alleviate these computational burden s and improve overall model efficiency, Kolmogorov–Arnold Networks (KANs) [ 20 ] are employed, grounded in the Kolmogoro v–Arnold representation theorem, which decomposes complex mul tivariate functions into compositions of one-dimensional learnable spline functions. By replacing the fixed linear weights and activation f unctions of traditional Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) with adaptive spline-based univariate functions, KANs flexibly a djust feature propagation paths to capture localized nonlinear patterns – such as abrupt pressure gradients or humidity saturation – while maintaining computational efficiency. Unlike Multilayer Perceptrons (MLPs) that rel y on fixed activation functions (e.g., ReLU) and deep architectures to approximate complex mappings, KANs achieve comparable expressiveness with shallower structures by opti mizing spline-based activations. This design reduces computational complexity by avoiding the quadratic parameter scaling inherent in MLP s and mitigates overfitting on high-dimensional meteorological data. Recent studies have demonstrated the superior performance of KANs in time-series forecasting tasks [ 21 , 22 ]. To address the challenges of modeling comple x spatial dependencies, mitigating data quality fluctuations, and capturing spatial semantic correlations in meteorological data, we propose Hypergraph Kolmogorov–Arnold Networks (HyperG KAN), a sequence- to-sequence framework for station-level weather forecasting. HyperGKAN represents meteorological stations as nodes c onnected via both neighborhood and semantic hyperedges, enabling simultaneous modeling of local proximity and la tent similarity. Within HyperGKAN, hypergraph convolutions aggregate multi-source spatial information, while integrated Kolmogorov–Arnold Networks replace fixed GCN weights and activations with learnable one-dimensional spline functions. This hybrid design reduces computa- tional complexity by avoiding the quadratic parameter s caling of deep MLPs and offers dynamic, data-driven feature propagation, thereby overcoming the scalability limitations of conventional GC Ns and hypergraph schemes and enhancing adaptability to large, complex meteorological datasets. The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows: • The spatial dependencies between meteorological data are modeled using hypergraphs, and the hypergraph representation can more effectively model higher-order aggregation of mete orological phenomena. • A new multi-information spatio-temporal hypergra ph learning framework is proposed, which consists of neighborhood hypergraphs and semantic hypergraph convolutional networks to capture spatial features by aggregating neighboring and similar meteorological data to adapt t o the complexity of atmospheric systems. • Kolmogorov–Arnold network is introduced to enable more dy namic feature propagation in the graph structure by exploiting the unique features of KAN, in parti cular the use of learnable univariate functions rather than fixed linear weights. 2. Related work This section provides a brief overview of some of the techniques relevant to this research, mainly related to deep learning-based weather forecasting and hype rgraph neural networks. 2.1. Deep learning-based weather for ecasting Deep learning-based weather forecasting models are increasingly utilized for their ability to process vast meteorologic al datasets and uncover pat terns that enable precise and timely predictions. Compared to traditional numerical weather prediction (NWP) models [ 23 ], which rely on complex physical equations and are computationally intensive, AI-based approaches [ 24 ] demonstrate notable advantages i n both predictive accuracy and efficiency. Albu et al. [ 25 ] proposed NeXtNow, a convolutional encoder–decoder architecture designed to capture both spatial and temporal features in weather data, showcasing advancements in precipitation foreca sting. Karevan and Suykens [ 26 ] investigated Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks for time-series forecasting, highlighting their strength in modeling temporal depen dencies, but their limited ability to model spatial correlation. To further improve the modeling of spatial dependencies, Pathak et al. [ 9 ] introduced a visual Transfor mer [ 27 ] that integrates the Fourier neural operator with self-attention mechanisms. This appr oach enables the efficient processing of high-resolution weather data and captures multi-scale patterns through the use of fast Fourier transforms (FFT). Additionally, to address the specific challenges posed by spherical data, a spher ical Fourier transform [ 28 ] was introduced to replace planar transforms, ensuring rotational invariance and enhancing the stability of long-term forec asts, particularly those extending beyond one year. However, a core challenge in spatial modeling stems from the non-unif orm and irregular structure of meteorological observation networks, especially at the global scale, where trad itional grid representations introduce distortions. Graph neural networks (GNNs) address this issue by representing meteorological fields as graphs, where nodes correspond to stations or grid points and edges are used to model spatial dependencies. GNN-based methods have been successfully applied to global and regional forecasting tasks; for example, Keisler [ 13 ] used GNNs for six-hour interval forecasting, and GraphCast [ 15 ] demonstrated impressive accuracy in global forecasting using a GNN framework. Despit e these advances, most existing GNN-based models rely on pairwise spatial relationships, which limits their ability to capture highe r-order dependencies inherent in atmospheric processes. To overcome this issue, recent studies have explored more ada ptive graph constructions. For example, DGFormer [ 29 ] employs a dynamic graph learning mechanism to construct an adjacency matrix via node embedding similarities and optimize the graph structure via physically constrained topological optimization. This dynamic approach allows the inter-sta tion topology to evolve over time, which enhances temporal adaptability and thus improves the performance of long -term forecasts. In summary, even if the graph structure is adjusted through dynamic mechanisms, the traditional pa irwise relationship modeling framework may still be difficult to fully characterize the complex multi-station spatial correlations that are prevalent in meteorological systems. This problem is particularly prominent in short-term and high-impact weather events. Therefore, the limitations of the current method highlight the urgent need for a more structurally expressiv e modeling framework to more effectively construct and propagate high-order spatial depe ndencies between meteorological variables, providing basic support for improving the accuracy of short-term forecasts. 2.2. Hypergraph neural networks To address these limitations, hypergraph neural networks (HGNNs) hav e emerged as a promising extension of traditional graph- based methods. Unlike conventional graphs, which model pairwise relationship s, hypergraphs allow for the representation of higher-order interactions involving multip le nodes, providing a more expressive framework for capturing complex relationships. Early studies focused on adapting GNNs to hy pergraph structures by defining hypergraph Laplacian operators and constructing corresponding hypergraph convolution processes. Feng et al. [ 19 ] further advanced this methodology by overcoming th e limitation of binary relationships in traditional GNNs. Their model integrates higher-order, multi-node associations into the feature extraction process through spectral domain convolution on hypergraphs. To improve the flexibility of hypergraph models, Gao et al. [ 30 ] proposed a generalized hypergra ph neural network framework, HGNN+, which improves the representation of complex data relationships. This is achieved through higher-order association modeling and an adaptive hyperedge fusion strategy, improving the processing of multimodal and multi- type data. The two-stage hypergraph convolution mechanism used in HGNN+ markedly enhances the flexibility and representation capacity of in formation propagation in hypergraphs. Bai et al. [ 31 ] introduced a hypergraph attention mechanism that assigns different attention weights to hyperedges during the aggregation process. This mechanism effectively disti nguishes the importance of each hyperedge, improving the ability of the model to capture nuanced re lationships. Meanwhile, Ding et al. [ 32 ] introduced HyperGAT, which combines the attention mechanism with hypergraphs to evaluate the importance of different features during the aggregation process. Zhang et al. [ 33 ] presented Hyper-SAGNN, which adapts to heterogeneous hyperedges of arbitrary size through self-attention. The Al lSet framework [ 34 ] incorporates Deep Sets and Set Transformers into hypergraph neural networks, introducing an innovative appr oach using multi-set functi on combinations. Moreover, Wang et al. [ 35 ] proposed the T-HyperGNN framework, which models higher- order interactions in hypergraphs by introducin g high-dimensional tensor representations. By combining T-spectral and T-spatial convolutions, T-HyperGNN constructs a unified multilevel information transfer mechanism, effective ly preserving complex multi- relationships between nodes. Additionally, Ma et al. [ 36 ] introduced a multi-view time se ries hypergraph neural network, which captures higher-order spatial and temporal semantic relationships in human action recognition. Hypergraph neural networks have shown great promi se in a variety of fields, particularly in addressing complex scenarios involving multimodal data and time series forecasting. Building on these advanceme nts, this paper introduces the hypergraph structure to model complex relation ships in multivariate time series data. Fig. 1. An overvie w of the proposed method’s framework. The method utilizes the location of weather stations and historical weather data to construct neighborhood hypergraphs and Kolmogorov–Arnold networks. The core of the workflow is an encoder–decoder neural network structure. A spatio -temporal convolution module and hypergraph c onvolution work with the weather data to process these hypergraphs. The outputs are then merged and presented as detailed forecasts at the stat ion level. 3. Methodology To address the challenge of multi-st ep weather prediction and achieve end-to-end forecasting, this paper design a spatio-temporal hypergraph neural network, HyperGKAN,. The model is based on a sequence-to-sequen ce architecture, where the encoder module extracts key features from historical meteoro logical time series, and the decoder module uses these features to generate future weather forecasts step-by-step, enabling step-by-step prediction over multiple t ime steps. 3.1. Problem definition and network architecture Weather forecasting involves predicting future meteorological conditions by analyzing historical data collected from weather stations. In this paper, the inp uts to the HyperGKAN model include the geographical locations of the weather stations and their historical weather data, the data from all weather stations P at the t th time st ep denoted as, { X t = { x t 1 ; x t 2 ; … ; x t P } ∈ R P × Q } 1 , where T in represents the time dimen sion and Q is the number of meteorological features. The task of the model is to predict the future time series { X t +1 ; … :::; X t + m −1 ; X t + m } for m time steps based on the histor ical time series for k time steps as input { X t − k ; … :::; X t −1 ; X t } . Fig. 1 shows the overall framework of HyperGKAN, which is mainly composed of th e following three parts: Input of HyperGKAN: Inputs to t he model include geographical longitude and latitude information from N weather stations and historical observation data of co nsecutive Tin intervals. The input data of each time step has dimensions B × N × F , where B represents the batch size and F is the number of feature channels for each node. First, th e hypergraph structure is constructed from the multivariate time series data by the hypergraph generation module. Using the location information of the weather station, the neighborhood hypergraph is generated by the K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) method based on the distan ce metric. Meanwhile, the semantic hypergraph is constructed by the KNN method with semantic metric b ased on historical data. Feature extraction: To extract features from meteorological data, histo rical meteorological data and two N × M incidence matrices with M hyperedges are input into the encoder–de coder architecture. Each spatio-temporal module combines the modeling advantages of KAN and hypergraph convolutional neural network, and can decouple and combine high-dimensional in puts into one-dimensional functions, thereby reducing the degree of coupling between features and improving t he accuracy and expression of feature extraction. After the KAN layer, the model first expands the number of channels to 32 to enhance the feature representation capability, and then reduces i t to 16 to further capture the potential relationship between variables. Encoder–decoder architecture: To model temporal dependencies, GRUs (Gated Recurrent Units) are employed, with the linear layer replaced by HyperGKAN within the GRUs. Building on this design, an encoder –decoder architecture is constructed using multiple GRUs. The encoder’s number of layers matches the input time steps, while the decoder’s layers correspond to the output time steps. Finally, after the linear layer, an output with the dimension of B × T out × N × F is obta ined. Fig. 2. An architectural flo w based on Hypergraph Neural Networks for processing weather station information and meteorological time series data. The whole is divided into two parts, corresponding to two input data types: weat her station information and meteorological time series data. 3.2. Adjacency and semantic hypergra ph construction Hypergraphs generalize traditional graphs by allowing each hyperedge to connect more than two nodes, making them ideal for modeling complex relationships between multip le entities. In meteorological data analysis, hypergraphs are particularly useful for capturing both spatial and temporal dependencies between weather stations, which may involve intricate relation ships across multiple stations. Each node in the hypergraph represents a weather station, and the hyperedges mode l interactions between stations based on various factors, such as spatial proximity, semantic similarity, or other meteorological charact eristics. A hypergraph is composed of multiple hyperedges, each containing multiple nodes. The degree of each vertex v ∈ v can be expressed as: where w ( e ) represent the wight of hyperedge e , h ( v; e ) denotes wh ether the hyperedge e contains a node v . For each hyperedge, the hyperedge degree is defined by: In this study, the vertices of the hypergraph, denoted by V , represent weather stations, and the meteorological data from these stations are presented as v ertex attributes. As shown in Fig. 2 , multiple hypergraphs have been constructed to uncover the spatial correlations embedded within meteorolog- ical data, enabling the capture o f multi-spatial information. The construction of these hypergraphs involves two distinct processes: building the adjacency hy pergraph G G and developing the semantic hypergraphs G S . Adjacency hypergraph construction. The adjacency hypergraph is constructed to reveal the spatial relationships among nearby weather stations. This structure highlights the presence of effective influence between neighboring stations, attributed to advection and local pattern characteristics of meteorological data. In addition, us ing the values of meteorological data to calculate dynamic attention for each adjacency hyperedge , which helps mitigate the impact of neighborhood noise in some cases. First, considering that weather stations are located on the Earth’s surface, meteorological information from these stations is treated as signals distributed across the surface of a sphere. Each weather station is represented as { v = ( v 1 ; v 2 ; v 3 ; … ; v n ) : ‖v‖ = 1 } . Then, we calculate the geodesic distance between each pair of weather stations using their latitude and longit ude. This distance represents the shortest path between them on the Earth’s surface. Utilizing the geodesic distances, the KNN algorithm is employed to identi fy the nearest r stations for each weather station and construct adjacency hyperedge s ε a = ( e j ) a ∈ A , A , where A denotes the number of adjacency hyperedges. The r closest weather stations to v i are connected via these hyperedges. Yet, it is important to note that a djacent weather stations might sometimes experience vastly different weather conditions, such as local weather phe nomena and severe convective weather events. To effectively aggregate node information, hyperedge weights are computed ba sed on the variability of meteorological features. These weights represent the interaction strength between nodes within each hyperedge. The formula used to calculate hyperedge weights is as follows: w ij = i; m ∈ v; (3) where w ij denotes the weight b etween weather station i and j . Semantic Hypergraph Construction The adjacency hypergraph represents the spatial correlations within the neighborhood of weather stations based on geographic location. However, weather stations located in distant areas may still exhibit similar meteorological patterns due to comparable topographic and landform characteristics. This phenomenon is referred to as ‘‘semantic correlation’’. To capture this richer spatial information, the semantic hypergraph is constructed. The s emantic hypergraph is analyzed from two perspectives: aggregation and estrangement. The aggregation semantic hy pergraph highlights positive and beneficial interactions, signifying useful connections. On the other hand, the est rangement semantic hypergraph indicates dissimilar and potentially disruptive relationships, helping to identify and isolate noisy information. The variation in topographic can influence the direction of air circulation. A lthough topographic information generally remains constant over time, it significantly impacts weather pat terns. Consequently, historical meteorological data from weather stations can serve as an indirect representati on of topographic information. Specifically, the hypergraph is constructed using the Euclidean distance (ED) between the meteorological time-series data of the stations. For each station, the most similar R stations are selected to form semantic topogra phic hyperedges ε t = ( e t ) t ∈ τ . Thus, the semantic hypergraph G S illustrates the ‘‘topographic similarity’’ among weather stations. In summary, adjacency hyp ergraph G G and semantic hypergraph G S are constructed. 3.3. KAN - based HyperGNN layers The Kolmogorov–Arnold Network (KAN), rooted in the Kolmogorov–Arnold representation theorem, is a neural network architecture designed to approximate complex nonlinear systems. The theorem states that any continuous multivar iate function can be represented using combinations of one-dimensional continuous functions. By leveraging this principle, K AN enables the approximation of multivariate functions using nested transform ations of univariate functions. In this method, the KAN architecture serves as an alternative to the MLP, drawing on the Kolmogorov–Arnold repr esentation theorem, which states that any arbitrary multivariate function f : [0 ; 1] d → R can be repres ented in the following form: where all the and functions are univariate and their combination uniquely consti tutes a multivariate operator. This representation c an be understood as a two-step process: first a different univariate nonlinear activation function is applied to each dimension of the input, and then the out puts of these functions are summed. Based on this, the KAN layer maps the space A ≤ R d to the space B ≤ R d ′ , similar to the mappin g of the MLP layer. The layer consists of d × d ′ trainable univariate functions { ij ; 1 ≤ i ≤ d ′ ; 1 ≤ j ≤ d } . For input x ∈ A , its output x ′ is computed as : The KAN architecture supports the input dimension d , the output dimensi on d ′ , and the model constructed by the formulae as above is a universal function approximator. Compared with MLP, the KAN architecture has some advantages in terms of complexity. According to the theorem, any multivariate function from [0 ; 1] d to R d ′ require s at most (2 d 2 + d ) × d ′ univariate functions, whereas the universal approximation theorem of MLP may require an infinite number of neurons. However, the behavior of these univariate functions can be very complex (e.g., fractal or non-smooth) and may be difficult to represent or learn. To address this problem, MLP mitigates the need for infinite width by stac king layers of finite width; similarly, KAN reduces the complexity requirement for nonlinearity by stacking multiple KAN layers. Thus, the fin al output of the function is: f out ( x ) = KAN ( x ) = L ◦ L −1 ◦ ::: ◦ 1 ; (6) where, L denotes the numbe r of KAN layers. KAN achieves superior nonlinear representation by replacing fixed activation functions with learna ble univariate spline functions. For a KANLinear layer with input dimension d in and output dimension d out , the time complexity is dominated by spline b asis computation and linear transformations. The B-spline basis calculation requires O ( d in . ( G + S )) operations, where G is the gri d size (default G = 5 ) and S is the spline order (default S = 3 ). Subsequent linear oper ations introduce O ( d in . d out . ( G + S )) complexity. While this exceeds the O ( d in . d out ) complexity of an MLP layer, KAN’s shallow architecture compensates by reducing the nee d for deep stacking. The space complexity stems from storing d in . d out . ( G + S ) spline coefficients and d in . d out base weights. With default parameters ( G = 5 , S = 3 ), a KANLinear layer requires 8 × more parameters than an equivalent ML P layer, but fewer layers are needed to achieve comparable nonlinearity. 3.4. KAN - based multi - information HyperGNN In weather forecasting, the hypergraph convolution ke rnel enables efficient spatial information transfer by combining features from various meteorological data sources, offering a robust approach to modeling spatial dependencies. Building on this, a novel variant of the hypergraph mo del is introduced by integrating Kolmogorov–Arnold Networks (KANs) for transforming node features. Instead of using traditional fully-connected layers or multilayer perceptrons (MLPs), KAN la yers are utilized to construct a new type of Hypergraph Convolutional Layer, the HyperGKAN layer. This approach allows the model to e ffectively capture complex spatial dependencies and adaptively transform node features, enhancing its capability to represent meteorological dat a and improving prediction accuracy. Algorithm 1 Prediction framewor k of HyperGKAN 1: Input: Historical meteorological dataset x , initial traffic network G . 2: Output: Prediction resul ts P . 3: Construct neighborhood hypergraph G G using KN N based on geodesic distances. 4: Construct semantic hyperg raph G s using KNN based on feature similarity of x . 5: for iter < iters do 6: Dynamically fuse spa tial and semantic features using KAN-based hypergraph convolutional layers. y i ← f ( conv ( G G , G s )) 7: Calculate prediction loss L MAE using predicted values p i and t rue values p i as: 8: end for 9: Output Prediction Results : Gen erate final prediction results p based on the output of the KAN-enhanced hypergraph network. The strength of KAN lies in its ability to approximate arbitrary multidimensional continuous functions through a se ries of nonlinear transformations, based on the Kolmogorov–Arnol d representation theorem. By leveraging this powerful feature, the HyperGKAN layer captures the intricate re lationships among node features during the transformation process, resulting in a more flexible representation of higher-order corr elations in the hypergraph. This is particularly useful when dealing with complex weather data. The specific implementation of the HyperGKA N layer is as follows: x l g = Φ l ( D H g w g D −1 e H T g D x l g −1 ) , (7) x l s = Φ l ( ~ D H s w s ~−1 D e H T s ~ D x l s −1 ) , (8) where x l g −1 ∈ R N × c and x l s −1 ∈ R N × c represent neighborhood features and semantic features in layer l respectively. N indicates the number of meteorological stations and c denotes the dimension of eac h weather station feature. Φ represents single KAN layer. The neighborhood features and semantic features obtained after convolution are dynamica lly fused through a linear layer. Ultimately, the fusion representation of the multivariate time series can be expressed as: x o = Linear ( concat ( x G , x s )) , (9) where x G and x s denote the p ost-convolution neighborhood and semantic features, respectively, and Atten denotes the operation of the attention mechanism. This fusion step ensures that the model effectively integrates multi-dimensional weather data for improved forecasting accuracy. In summary, the complete training process of our proposed method is outlined i n Algorithm 1 . 4. Experiments All experiments were performed on a system with an Intel ® Xeon ® Gold 6326 CP U @ 2.90 GHz, an NVIDIA A800 80 GB GPU, and Ubuntu 18.04.1 LTS, with th e model implemented in the PyTorch framework. To assess the performance of the HyperGKAN model, we conducted comprehensive experiments on four weather datasets, validated the results through ablation studies and various visual analyses, and examine d the impact of the number of nodes per hyperedge. 4.1. Experiment setup Experiments used the WeatherBench high-resolution weather dataset, comprising 2048 global distributed nodes to record real weather observations across diverse regions and varying resolutions. This study focuses on hourly weather forecasts using the subset shared by Lin et al. [ 12 ]. The subset includes global meteorological data from January 1, 2010, to December 31, 2018, covering variables lik e temperature, cloud cover, humidity, and surface wind speed. For detailed analysis, the forecasts of these four meteorological v ariables are compared separately. Both the input and prediction time steps for the HyperGKAN model are set to 12 h. The dataset is divided into 2300 training samples, 329 validation samples, and 657 test samples. HyperGKAN is a spatio-temporal hypergraph convolutional network designed for weather forecasting. To validate the effec- tiveness of our experimental comparisons, we primarily focused on comparing it with ot her spatio-temporal graph convolutional networks. The specifics of the comparison methods are described below: ∙ GCGRU [ 37 ] extracts spatial and temporal dependencies step by step at each time step by combining the propertie s of GCN and GRU. Table 1 Comparison of our method with mainstream spatio-temporal graph neural networks on four weather dataset s. Results in bold indicate the best overall performance. Method Venue Temperature Cloud cover Humidity Wind MAE RMSE MAE RMSE MAE RMSE MAE RMSE GCGRU ICLR_17 1.1757 1.9776 0.1584 0.2547 5.1018 8.0834 1.4102 2.3073 STGCN IJCAI _18 3.3083 5.7367 0.2019 0.2954 7.7572 8.1960 3.6477 4.8143 DCRNN ICLR_18 1.1071 1.9391 0.1587 0.2554 5.0717 8.0047 1.3971 2.2758 ASTGCN AAAI _19 1.4766 2.4599 0.1986 0.2948 6.4717 9.0379 2.0883 3.1344 AGCRN NIPS _20 1.2471 1.9095 0.1603 0.2589 5.6321 9.1527 2.3045 3.3044 CLCRN AAAI _22 1.0719 1.7320 0.1495 0.2438 4.5087 7.0046 1.2362 1.9641 SimpleSTG TMLR _23 0.8813 1.5434 0.1561 0.2516 4.7718 7.5138 2.4906 3.7017 FCSTGNN AAAI _24 1.0326 1.7248 0.1654 0.2635 5.0428 7.9048 1.4326 2.3179 HyperGKAN – 0.8942 1.5747 0.1455 0.2420 4.7059 7.4285 1.0029 1.5702 ∙ STGCN [ 38 ] uses one-dimensional convolution al ong the temporal dimension to capture temporal dependencies, with time- series data as input. This time-series co nvolution effectively captures both short-term and long-term temporal features within a fixed time window. ∙ DCRNN [ 39 ] is based on the concept of crossover networks, where features ar e cross-processed through RNN networks. It introduces a partial parameter sharing structure, which effectively captures the und erlying correlations between different tasks, improving learning efficiency and optimizatio n for multi-task scenarios. ∙ ASTGCN [ 40 ] and MSTGCN [ 40 ] utilize spatial attention mechanisms to learn spatial correlations a nd temporal attention to capture temporal correlations across different time steps. ∙ TGCN [ 41 ] achieves efficient modeling ofspatio-temporal dependencies through type-aware neighbor aggregation, CNN-based multilevel feature interaction updating and TransTag regularization to capture sem antic information of user-tag-item triples. ∙ AGCRN [ 42 ] dynamically mode ls the spatial and temporal dependencies of nodes by integrating the Node Adaptive Parameter Learning (NAPL) module and the Data Adaptive Graph Generation (DAGG) module. The NAPL module learns node-specific feature patterns, while the DAGG module generates adaptive adjacency matrices to capture the dynamic spatio-temporal correlations between nod es. ∙ CLCRN [ 12 ] captures the local spatial patterns of each node through a conditional local convolution kernel , which is embedded into a recurrent neural network to model the temporal dyna mics, thus capturing the spatial and temporal features of meteorological data in a spatio-temp oral dependency. ∙ SimpleSTG [ 43 ] captures spa tio-temporal dependencies by combining spatial and temporal modules into a unified framework, incorporating a simplified Neural Architecture Search (NA S) strategy based on stochastic search. ∙ FCSTGNN [ 44 ] enables comprehensive spatio-temporal dependency modeling of multi-sensor time series data by constructing FC graphs to establish complete connectivity between all sensors and timestamps, and by convolving moving pooled GNN layers with sliding windows. In the experiments, The model was trained using the Adam optimizer with an initial learning rate of 0.01, which followed a step-decay schedule at predefined intervals. Both training and validation phases utilized a batch size of 16. The loss function was defined as Mean Absolut e Error (MAE), and the activation function in the Kolmogorov–Arnold Network (KAN) layers was set to SiLU (Sigmoid Linear Unit). No explicit L1 or L2 regularizat ion was applied during training. The total number of training epochs was capped at 500, with early stopping triggered if no improveme nt in validation loss was observed for 35 consecutive epochs. The model’s effectiveness was evaluated using two metrics: mean absolute error (MAE) and ro ot mean square error (RMSE), as shown below: Here, y t i represents the predicted value at time t for t he i th meteorological observation station, and t i is the corresponding ground truth value. The MAE measures the average absolute errors between pre dicted values and the ground truth, reflecting their magnitude of difference. The RMSE calculates the square root of the mean squared diff erences, providing a measure of the model’s stability. 4.2. Performance comparison Table 1 demonstrates the comparison results of our proposed HyperGKAN method with other mainstream spatio-te mporal graph neural networks on four different meteorological datasets. The specific evaluation metrics incl ude the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) Table 2 Experimental comparison of this method with the CLCRN method for different prediction time steps. Method Temperature Cloud cover Humidity Wind MAE RMSE MAE RMSE MAE RMSE MAE RMSE CLCRN (3 h) 0.3910 0.7116 0.0925 0.1619 1.9726 3.3682 0.4975 0.8603 Our(3 h) 0.3654 0.7032 0.0902 0.1540 2.0906 3.6335 0.4954 0.8580 CLCRN (6 h) 0.6673 1.1771 0.1202 0.2025 3.1267 5.1698 0.7966 1.3288 Our(6 h) 0.6599 1.1332 0.1114 0.1904 3.6916 6.0886 0.7896 1.3072 CLCRN (12 h) 1.0719 1.7320 0.1495 0.2438 4.5087 7.0046 1.2362 1.9641 Our (12 h) 0.8942 1.5747 0.1455 0.2420 4.7059 7.4285 1.0029 1.5702 and Root Mean Square Error (RMS E) for Temperature, Cloud cover, Humidity, and Wind. Smaller values of MAE and RMSE indicate lower prediction errors and better model performance. As shown in Table 1 , HyperGKAN delivers strong predictive performance on cloud cover and wi nd speed, outperforming all baselines. However, it performs slightly below SimpleSTG on th e temperature dataset. This can be attributed to HyperGKAN’s architectural emphasis on capturing global and high -order spatial relationships, whereas SimpleSTG is more adept at modeling localized spatial patterns. In the case of humidity, where local correlations bet ween adjacent meteorological sites dominate, HyperGKAN’s use of non-local dependencies may introduce redundant information, resulting in marginally reduced effectiven ess. These performance variations align with the inherent spatial dynamics of dif ferent meteorological variables. For instance, wind and cloud cover are often influenced by large-scale atmospheric systems and synoptic processes that span extensive geographical areas. In such contexts, HyperGKAN’s hypergrap h structure, particularly its ability to connect semantically similar but geographically distant nodes via hyperedges, proves advantageous by capturing high-order spatial corre lations beyond pairwise interactions. In contrast, temperature and humidity are governed by more localized phenomena – such as topography, microclimates, and surface-atmosphere exchanges – where short -range spatial dependencies are dominant. While HyperGKAN incorporates local neigh- borhood hyperedges, the inclusion of global semantic hyperedges may dilute the predictive power for variables w ith concentrated spatial dependencies. Traditional graph models, which focus on pairwise proximity, may be more aligned with the spatia l behavior of these variables. Nevertheless, HyperGKAN consistently ranks among th e top-performing models across all tasks, securing either the first or second position in each category (as shown in Table 1 ). Its balanced integration of local and global spatial modeli ng enables effective handling of diverse meteorological patterns. Rather than exposing a limitation in generalizability, the observed perf ormance variations underscore the model’s adaptability to different spa tial correlation structures inherent in atmospheric data. Table 2 demonstrates the comparison of the results at different time steps. It can be seen that our pr oposed method outperforms CLCRN in the assessment of most meteorological elements. However, the performance of humidity prediction is weaker, mainly due to the fact that humidity is highly dependent on multiple factors, such as temperature, barometric pressure, precipitat ion, etc., and its variations are subject to time-delayed effects and significant localized variations, which increase the difficulty of the model prediction. Overall, our method effectively handles spatial information at each time step, which significantly improves the accuracy of the long-term prediction. 4.3. Ablation analysis We conducted ablation tests to validate the effectiveness of the HyperGKAN design. Five ablation variants wer e evaluated on temperature, cloud cover, humidity, and wind datasets. The implemented model variants are described as follows: (1) w/o-G: Replaces the hypergraph convolution layer with a conventiona l graph convolution layer. (2) w/o-Nei: Removes the neighborhoo d hypergraph, relying solely on the semantic hypergraph to model inter-sequence dependencies. (3) w/o-Sem: Removes the semantic hypergraph, relying solely on the neighborhood hypergraph to model inter-sequence dependencies. (4) w/o-KAN: Replaces the KAN with MLP for learning feature representations. (5) w/o-Fusion: Replaces the attention fusio n module with a simple addition operation for feature fusion. Table 3 demonstrates a comparison of the performance of the different variants of the model on the temperature, clou d cover, humidity and wind datasets. The results of the analyses are as follows: (1) The results of the w/o-G variant show a significant increase in MAE and RMSE in all four tasks. This indicates: • The hypergraph convolutional layer is able to capture higher-order node relationships, where as the traditional graph convolution can only model first-order neig hborhood dependencies. • For meteorological data, complex diffuse relationships often exist between neighboring sites, and these higher-order relation- ships cannot be captured by traditional graph convoluti on. (2) The results of the w/o-Nei variant show a certain degree of performance degradation on the four prediction tasks of the meteorological factors. This indicates: Table 3 Experiments with different forecasting time steps are compared with the latest CLCRN me thod. Method Temperature Cloud cover Humidity Wind MAE RMSE MAE RMSE MAE RMSE MAE RMSE w/o-G 0.9331 1.6360 0.1565 0.2573 4.9931 7.8788 1.5255 2.3876 w/o-Nei 1.0293 1.8047 0.1625 0.2631 5.1798 8.1934 1.3002 1.9141 w/o-Sem 1.0315 1.8369 0.1558 0.2562 5.3106 8.2622 1.1189 1.6337 w/o- KAN 1.0174 1.6688 0.1465 0.2458 4.5067 7.0519 1.2201 1.8922 w/o-Fusion 0.9310 1.6515 0.1561 0.2812 4.9337 7.7684 1.1018 1.6032 Our 0.8942 1.5747 0.1455 0.2420 4.7059 7.4285 1.0029 1.5702 • Neighborhood hypergraphs are able to capture local time series dependencies, such as weather propagation patterns between neighboring weather stations. • Removing the neighborhood hypergraph weakens the model’s ability to model short-time local relationships, leading to an increase in prediction error. (3) The results of the w/o-Sem variant indicate that semantic hypergraphs po sitively impact elemental prediction. This shows: • Semantic hypergraphs are used to capture global semantic dependencies , such as long-distance correlations between weather stations with similar weather patterns. • Removing the semantic hypergraph makes it difficult for the model to effectively capture thes e global features, which affects the prediction performance. (4) The results of the w/o-KAN variant show that this variant performs poorly on all four data elements. This indicates: • The KAN layer is capable of modeling complex univariate features using learnable non- linear functions, which plays an important role in spatio-temporal feature ext raction for meteorological data. • The inability of the linear layer to capture such non-linear features leads to a reduction in the model ’s ability to model complex spatio-temporal dynamics. (5) The results ofthe w/o-Fusion variant show that replacing the feature attention fusion module with a simple addition operation leads to a decrease in model performance. This indicates: • The attention fusion mo dule is able to dynamically adjust the contribution of each feature by assigning weights according to the importance of different features. • Simple addition operations may lead to information conflict or redundancy and fail to fully utilize the synergistic relationship between features. The ablation experiment verifies the importance of each module in the whole framework. The removal of any module lea ds to different degrees of degradation in prediction performance, indicati ng that the designed framework has a clear functional division of labor and synergy among the v arious parts, which is a key factor in achieving efficient weather prediction. Given that the traditional multi-layer perceptron (MLP) not only has linear modeling capabilities, but also has signif icantly enhanced nonlinear expression capabilities after the introduction of specific nonlinear activation functions (such as sine function or sigmoid function), especially in dealing with complex spa tiotemporal dependencies and nonlinear mapping tasks. In order to comprehensively evaluate the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed Kolmogorov–Arnold Netw ork (KAN) in modeling nonlinear features, we designed a set of MLP structures based on different activation functions as comparison models and conducted systematic ablation experiments. The specific settings are as follows: (1) w-ReLU: ReLU is used as the activatio n function in MLP to improve the sparsity and nonlinear modeling capabilities of the network for feature representa tion; (2) w-Sine: The Sine activation function is used to capture the periodic fluctuation characteristics in the data, w hich is suitable for modeling physical processes with oscillat ory behavior; (3) w-Sigmoid: The Sigmoid a ctivation function is used to introduce smooth nonlinear transformations, so that the output is bounded within a fixed interval, which hel ps stabilize the training process and limit the impact of outliers. From the experimental resu lts in Table 4 , we can see that although MLP has certain expressive power after using nonlinear activation functions such as Sine, ReLU or Sigmoid, it has not surpassed the KAN-based model in all tasks, especially in the wind speed and cloud cover pr ediction tasks, where KAN shows obvious advantages. This shows that the nonlinear ability of traditional MLP is still limited by the form of fixed activation functions and the deep stacking of network structures. KAN can more flexibly approximate complex high-dimensional nonlinear functions by introducing learnable one-dimensional functio n combinations, and has stronger expressive power in extracting spatiotempora l dynamic features and capturing local and global dependencies. In addition, we further verified the importance of the KAN module in the ablation experiment in Section 4.3 . After removing KAN, the MAE and RMSE of the model in all prediction tasks increased significantly, indicating that it plays a key role in modeling complex meteorological data. In theory, KAN is based on the Kolmogorov–Arnold representation theorem and decomposes multivariate Table 4 Ablation experiment on structural of multil ayer perceptron with different activation functions. Method Temperature Cloud cover Humidity Wind MAE RMSE MAE RMSE MAE RMSE MAE RMSE w-Sine 0.9347 1.6499 0.1547 0.2564 5.0359 7.9023 1.2737 2.0955 w- ReLU 0.9194 1.6330 0.1548 0.2563 5.0199 7.8785 1.2719 2.0882 w-Sigmoid 1.17006 1.7249 0.1547 0.2568 4.9851 7.8258 1.2722 2.0913 Our 0.8942 1.5747 0.1455 0.2420 4.7059 7.4285 1.0029 1.5702 Fig. 3. Experiments with different K of hyperedges in meteorological variables data sets. functions into nested one-dimensional function combinations . This structured nonlinear modeling method has both strong expressive power and structural interpretability. Therefore, combining theoretical analysis wit h empirical results, it can be fully demonstrated that KAN has stronger fitting and generalizati on capabilities than traditional MLP, and is an effective means to achieve high-precision weather forecasting. 4.4. Effect of hypere dges on prediction performance The number K of nodes within each hyperedge is a key parameter for constructing K-nearest neighbor hypergraphs, smalle r K values mean more localized pairwise relationships, while larger K values enable the model to capture higher-order dependencies between nodes. We conducted K -sensitivity experiments with K values ranging from 2 to 6, evaluating the impact on prediction performance for temperature, cloud cover, humidity, and wind, as summarized in Fig. 3 . When K = 2 , the hypergraph structure essentially degenerates into a standard graph structure, and the model performance is similar to that of traditional GNN, which makes it difficult to capture high-order semantic information. As K increases, the prediction accuracy of the model on multiple data sets is significantly improved. Specifically, when K = 5 , the model achieves the best MAE and RMSE performance in temperature, cloud cover, and wind prediction tasks, indic ating that moderately sized hyperedges are more helpful in modeling the complex spatiotemporal dependencies in these variables. However, whe n K further increases to 6 , the model performance decreases to a certain extent, which may be due to the int roduction of noise information by excessively large hyperedges. It is worth noting that hum idity prediction performs best when K = 2 , which is closely related to the strong local differences and rapid changes in humidity between different geographical locati ons. This result shows that a relatively smaller hyperedge scale is more effective in modeling meteorological variables with strong local dependencies. In summary, the experimental results verify the importance of introducing appropriate high-order structures to improve the prediction ability of meteorological elements, and further prove the effectiveness of o ur proposed hypergraph construction strategy in balancing structural locality and expression ability. This also highlights the advantages of HyperGKAN over traditional GNN methods in modeling complex spatiotemporal rel ationships. 492188 6974840 5. Discussion While the proposed HyperGKAN model demonstrates competitive performance acros s multiple tasks, there remain opportunities to enhance its effectiveness. It is worth noting that the current dataset used in this study, while w idely adopted within the research community, is relatively limited in both scale and spatial resolution. This constraint may hinder the full expression of the hypergraph structure’s advantages, especially in modeling high-order dependencies and long-range semantic correlations. It is expected that applying HyperGKAN to larger-scale meteorological datasets with richer spatial coverage would better exploit the strengths of hypergraph modeling and yield further p erformance improvements. 6. Conclusion This paper proposes a Hypergraph Kolmogorov–Arnold Networks (HyperGKAN) for station le vel spatio-temporal weather prediction. The model combines neighborhoo d hypergraph and semantic hypergraph structures, which can effectively model high-order spatial dependencies in meteorological dat a and enhance the ability to describe complex dynamic processes such as atmospheric advection and diffusion. At the same time, the introduction of KAN’s learnable one-dimensional function replaces the fixed weights in traditional graph convolutio n, making the feature propagation process more flexible, thereby improving the model’s spatiotemporal modeling ability and expressiveness. Experiments on fo ur types of meteorological element data sets have shown that HyperGKAN outperforms existing methods in cloud cover and wind speed prediction tasks, and has also achieved competitive results in temperature and humidity prediction, showing higher overall prediction accuracy. It should be pointed out that compared with med ium- and long-term forecasting models such as GraphCast, NeuralGCM, and Pangu-Weather that rely on large-scale reanalysis data such as ERA5, this work is limited by the data time span and meteorological variable dimensions, and ma inly focuses on short-term forecasting tasks within 12 h. In the future, we will consider introducing a larger-scale, multivariate reanalysis dataset to expand the model’s application potential in medium- and long-term weather forecasting, and further introduce more business-significant indicators such as the anomaly correlation co efficient (ACC) to comprehensively evaluate the model’s performance at different spatio-temporal scales. In addition, although HyperGKAN has achieved signific ant improvements in accuracy, its hypergraph construction and semantic similarity calculation introduce additional computational burdens, and there is a certain amount of overhead in both the training and reasoning stages. The current version of the model takes accuracy optimization as its main goal, and has not yet been s pecifically designed for efficiency. Subs equent research will focus on building a more efficient model structure or introducing an approximate reasoning mechanism to improve operational efficiency while main taining forecasting performance. CRediT authorship contribu tion statement Jian Tang: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft. Kai Ma: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft. Declaration of competing i nterest The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this pap er. Data availability Data will be made available on request. References [1] M. Tolstykh, A. Frolov, Some current problems in numerical weather prediction, Izv. Atmos. Ocean. Phys. 41 (3) (2005 ) 285–295. [2] E.H. Müller, R. Scheichl, Massively parallel solvers for elliptic parti al differential equations in numerical weather and climate prediction, Q. J. R. Meteorol. Soc . 140 (685) (2014) 2608–2624. [3] G. Marchuk, Numerical Methods in Weather Prediction, Elsevier , 2012. [4] A. Chattopadhyay, M. Mustafa, P. Hassanzadeh, E. Bach, K. Kashinath, Towards physically consistent data-dri ven weather forecasting: Integrating data assimilation with equivariance-preserv ing deep spatial transformers, 2021, arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.09360 . [5] S. Bai, J.Z. Kolter, V. Koltun , An empirical evaluation of generic convolutional and recurrent networks for sequence modeling, 2018, arXiv preprint arXiv :1803.01271 . [6] J.A. Weyn, D.R. Durran, R. Caruana, Im proving data-driven global weather prediction using deep convolutional neural networks on a cubed sphere, J. Adv . Model . Earth Syst . 12 (9) (2020) e2020 MS 002109. [7] A.G. Salman, Y. Heryadi, E. Abdurahman, W. Suparta, Single layer & multi-layer l ong short-term memory (LSTM) model with intermediate variables for weather forecasting, Procedia Comput. Sci. 135 (2018) 89–98. [8] L. Chen, F. Du, Y. Hu, Z. Wang, F. Wang, Swinrdm: integrate swinrnn with diffusion model towards high-resolu tion and high-quality weather forecasting, in: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 37, 2023, pp. 322–330. [9] J. Pathak, S. Subramanian, P. Harrington, S. Raja, A. Chattopadhyay, M. Mardani, T. Kurth, D. Hall, Z. Li, K. Azizzadenesheli, et al ., Fourcastnet: A global data-driven high-resolution weather model using adaptive fourier neural operators, 2022, arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.11214 . [10] K. Bi, L. Xie, H. Zhang, X. Chen, X. Gu, Q. Tian, Accurate mediu m-range global weather forecasting with 3D neural networks, Nature 619 (7970) (2023) 533–538. [11] I. Price, A. Sanchez-G onzalez, F. Alet, T.R. Andersson, A. El-Kadi, D. Masters, T. Ewalds, J. Stott, S. Mohamed, P. Battaglia, et al., Gencast: Diffusion-based ensemble forecasting for medium-range weather, 2023 , arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.15796 . -1636 90364 [12] H. Lin, Z. Gao, Y. Xu, L. Wu, L. Li, S.Z. Li, Conditional local convolution for spatio-temporal meteorological fo recasting, in: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelli gence, Vol. 36, 2022, pp. 7470–7478. [13] R. Keisler, Forecas ting global weather with graph neural networks, 2022, arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.07575 . [14] M. Ma, P. Xie, F. Teng, B. Wang, S. Ji, J. Zhang, T. Li, HiSTGNN: Hierarchical spatio-temporal graph neural network for weather forecasting, Info rm. Sci. 648 (2023) 119580. [15] R. Lam, A. Sanchez-Gonzalez, M. Willson, P. Wirnsb erger, M. Fortunato, F. Alet, S. Ravuri, T. Ewalds, Z. Eaton-Rosen, W. Hu, et al., Learning skillful medium-range global weather forecasting, Science 38 2 (6677) (2023) 1416–1421. [16] D. Kochkov, J. Yuval, I. Langmore, P. Norgaard, J. Smith, G. Mooers, M. Klöwer, J. Lottes, S. Rasp, P. Düben, et al., Neural general circulation models for weather and climate, Nature 632 (8027) (2024) 1060–1066. [17] K. Bi, L. Xie, H. Zhang, X. Chen, X. Gu, Q. Tian, Pangu-weather: A 3D high-resolution model for fast and accurate global weather forecast, 2022, arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.02556 . [18] H. Hersbach, B. Bell, P. Berrisfo rd, S. Hirahara, A. Horányi, J. Muñoz-Sabater, J. Nicolas, C. Peubey, R. Radu, D. Schepers, et al., The ERA5 global reanalysis , Q. J. R. Meteorol . Soc . 146 (730) (2020) 1999–2049. [19] Y. Feng, H. You, Z. Zhang, R. Ji, Y. Gao, Hypergraph neural networks, in: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artifi cial Intelligence, Vol. 33, 2019, pp . 3558–3565. [20] Z. Liu, Y. Wang, S. Vaidya, F. Ruehle, J. Halverson, M. Soljačić, T.Y. Hou, M. Tegmark, KAN: Kolmogorov-Arnold networks, 2024, arXiv preprint arXiv :2404.19756 . [21] R. Genet, H. Inzirillo, A temporal Kolmogorov-Arnold transformer for time series forecasting, 2024, ArXiv. [22] I.E. Livieris, C-KA N: A new approach for integrating convolutional layers with Kolmogorov–Arnold networks for time-series forecasting, Math. 12 (19) (2024) 3022. [23] M.G. Schultz, C. Betancourt, B. Gong, F. Kleinert, M. Langguth, L.H. Leufen, A. Mozaffari, S. Stadtler, Can deep learning beat numerica l weather prediction ? Phil . Trans . R. Soc . A 379 (2194) (2021 ) 20200097. [24] I. Demir, Z. Xiang, B. Demiray, M. Sit, Waterbench: a large-scale benchmark dataset for data-driven streamflow forecasting, Earth Syst. Sci. Data Discuss. 2022 (2022) 1–19. [25] A.-I. Albu, G. Czibula, A. Mihai, I.G. Czibula, S. Burcea, A. Mezghani, NeXtNow: A convolutional deep learning model for the prediction of weather radar data for nowcasting purposes, Remote. Sens. 14 (16) (2022) 3890. [26] Z. Karevan, J.A. Suykens, Transductive LSTM for time-series pr ediction: An application to weather forecasting, Neural Netw. 125 (2020) 1–9. [27] J. Guibas, M. Mardani, Z. Li, A. Tao, A. Anandkumar, B. Catanzaro, Adaptive fourier neural operators: Efficient token mixers for transformers, 2021, arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.13587 . [28] B. Bonev, T. Kurth, C. Hundt, J. Pathak, M. Baust, K. Kashinath, A. An andkumar, Spherical fourier neural operators: Learning stable dynamics on the sphere, in: International Conference on Machine Learning, PMLR, 2023, pp. 2806–2823. [29] Z. Xu, X. Wei, J. Hao, J. Han, H. Li, C. Liu, Z. Li, D. Tian, N. Zhang, DGFormer: a physics-guided station le vel weather forecasting model with dynamic spatial-temporal graph neural network, GeoInformatic a 28 (3) (2024) 499–533. [30] Y. Gao, Y. Feng, S. Ji, R. Ji, HGNN+: General hype rgraph neural networks, IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 45 (3) (2022) 3181–3199. [31] S. Bai, F. Zhang, P.H. Torr , Hypergraph convolution and hypergraph attention, Pattern Recognit. 110 (2021) 107637. [32] K. Ding, J. Wang, J. Li, D. Li, H. Liu, Be more with less: Hypergraph attention networks for inductive text classification, 2020, arXiv preprint arXiv :2011.00387 . [33] R. Zhang, Y. Zou, J. Ma, Hyper-SAGNN: a self-attention based graph neural network for hyp ergraphs, 2019, arXiv preprint arXiv:1911.02613 . [34] E. Chien, C. Pan, J. Peng, O. Milenkovic, You are allset: A multiset function framework for hypergraph neural networks, 2021, arXiv preprint arXiv :2106.13264 . [35] F. Wang, K. Pena-Pena, W. Qian, G.R. Arce, T-HyperGNNs: Hypergraph neural networks via tensor representations, IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst. (2024). [36] N. Ma, Z. Wu, Y. Feng, C. Wang, Y. Gao, Multi-view time-series hypergraph neural network for action recognition, IEEE Trans. Image Process. (2024). [37] Y. Seo, M. Defferrard, P. Vandergheynst, X. Bresson, Structured sequence modeling with graph convolutional recurrent networ ks, 2016, arXiv preprint arXiv :1612.07659 . [38] H. Han, M. Zhang, M. Hou, F. Zhang, Z. Wang, E. Chen, H. W ang, J. Ma, Q. Liu, STGCN: a spatial-temporal aware graph learning method for POI recommendation, in: 2020 IEEE International Confe rence on Data Mining, ICDM, IEEE, 2020, pp. 1052–1057. [39] J. Zhou, Q. Yu, DCRNN: A deep cross approach based on RNN for partial parameter sharing in multi-task learning, 2023, a rXiv preprint arXiv:2310.11777 . [40] S. Guo, Y. Lin, N. Feng, C . Song, H. Wan, Attention based spatial-temporal graph convolutional networks for traffic flow forecasting, in: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 33, 2019, pp. 922–929. [41] B. Chen, W. Guo, R. Tang, X. Xin, Y. Ding, X. He, D. Wang, TGCN: Tag graph convolutional network for tag-aware recommendation, in: Proc eedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on Information & Knowledge Management, 2020, pp. 155–164. [42] L. Bai, L. Yao, C. Li, X. Wang, C. Wang, Adaptive graph convolutional recurrent network for traffic forecasting, Ad v. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 33 (2020) 17804–17815. [43] Z. Xu, Y. Li, Q. Yang, Understanding and simplifying architecture search in spat io-temporal graph neural networks, Trans. Mach. Learn. Res. (2022). [44] Y. Wang, Y. Xu, J. Yang, M. Wu, X. Li, L. Xie, Z. Chen, Fully-connected spatial-temporal graph for multivariate time- series data, in: Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 38, 2024, pp. 15715–15724. 